Chat: describe API (#6640)
DevExpress/devextreme-documentation: api-reference/10 UI Components/dxChat/1 Configuration/reloadOnChange.md

---
---
##### shortDescription

> Specifies whether the Chat UI component displays newly entered messages immediately. This property is in effect only if a [DataSource](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/DataSource/) object is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifies whether the Chat UI component displays new messages immediately. This property only applies if a [DataSource](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/DataSource/) object is used.
```

> Specifies whether the Chat UI component displays a message immediately after the message is entered. This property is in effect only if a [DataSource](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/DataSource/) object is used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Specifies whether the Chat UI component displays newly entered messages immediately. This property is in effect only if a [DataSource](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/DataSource/) object is used.
```

---

> When you send a message in Chat (press the "Send" button), Chat triggers the store's [insert](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/CustomStore/Configuration/#insert) method and adds the message to the store.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you send a message in a Chat (press the "Send" button), the Chat triggers the store's [insert](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/CustomStore/Configuration/#insert) method and adds the message to the store.
```

> If **reloadOnChange** is enabled (default), the DataSource [reloads](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/DataSource/Methods/#reload): clears all items and calls the [load](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/DataSource/Methods/#load) method to update itself. Chat automatically listens to DataSource [changes](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/DataSource/Events/#changed) and updates the message feed with new messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If **reloadOnChange** is enabled (default), the DataSource [reloads](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/DataSource/Methods/#reload) clears all items and calls the [load](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/DataSource/Methods/#load) method to update itself. Chat automatically listens to DataSource [changes](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/DataSource/Events/#changed) and updates the message feed with new messages.
```

> Then, if **reloadOnChange** is enabled (default), DataSource [reloads](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/DataSource/Methods/#reload), clearing all items and calling the [load](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/DataSource/Methods/#load) method to update itself. Chat automatically listens for DataSource [changes](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/DataSource/Events/#changed) and updates the message feed with new messages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If **reloadOnChange** is enabled (default), the DataSource [reloads](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/DataSource/Methods/#reload): clears all items and calls the [load](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/DataSource/Methods/#load) method to update itself. Chat automatically listens to DataSource [changes](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/DataSource/Events/#changed) and updates the message feed with new messages.
```

> To manage large numbers of messages, prevent additional load requests, and control message rendering timing, disable **reloadOnChange**. Handle the store's CRUD operations and [render messages](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxChat/Methods/#renderMessagemessage) as your needs dictate.

Reviewer 2: The beginning feels like "prevent additional load requests" is already an instruction on how to do that: "To manage large numbers, prevent additional requests". Something like "To send a message, click the Send button". 

So I'm changing the order a bit to clear up any possible confusion. 

```suggestion
Disable **reloadOnChange** to manage large numbers of messages, prevent additional load requests, and control message rendering timing. Handle the store's CRUD operations and [render messages](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxChat/Methods/#renderMessagemessage) as your needs dictate.
```

---
---
##### shortDescription

> Specifies whether to call [reload()](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/DataSource/Methods/#reload) on data source when the data changes.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure I understand the phrase "call reload() on data source". Judging by the link, the DataSource object should have a reload() function. 

But then I'm not sure what you mean by "data changes" and what "reload()" does. Does data change in the data source? Or does data change in the component? 

The best I can say is this... but that may not be easily understood, because there's no hint on what caused the data to change. Does someone write something to the data source outside of the current app? Or does this data change happen through the Chat component? I think it makes sense to clarify this. 

```suggestion
Specifies whether to call the data source's [reload()](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/DataSource/Methods/#reload) function when data changes.
```
